README.md, before:

# datapackage.js

Javascript Node module to manage [Data Packages][dp] especially [Simple
Data Format Data Packages][sdf] with tabular data stored in CSV.

[dp]: http://data.okfn.org/standards/data-package
[sdf]: http://data.okfn.org/standards/simple-data-format

## Installation

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/datapackage.png)](https://nodei.co/npm/datapackage/)

```
npm install datapackage
```

## Usage

The following assume you've required datapackage as follows:

```
var datapackage = require('datapackage');
```

All callbacks follow the standard node pattern of `(error, data, ...)`.

### Loading and normalizing a datapackage.json

```
datapackage.load(urlToDataPackage, callback)
```

Load a datapackage.json from a URL and normalize it as per the normalize function.

`urlToDataPackage` can be either a url to actual datapackage.json or to a base directory.

### Creating a Data Package datapackage.json (based on source data)

```
datapackage.create(info, callback)
```

`info` is an (optional) hash containing data to use for datapackage info most importantly it can contain a url or resource.url pointing to a data file (CSV). This file will be analyzed and used to create the resource entry in the datapackage.json.

### Validating a Data Package datapackage.json

```
datapackage.validate(rawData)
datapackage.validate(url)
```

Validate a datapackage either provided directly (as a raw string - JSON parse is done in the method) or as a url. This method is synchronous.

Returned object has structure:

```
{
  valid: true | false
  errors: [
    {
      message: ...
      ... possibly other info ...
    },
    {
      ...
    }
  ]
}
```

## Changelog

### v0.2.0

* #1 - change to name on fields in resource schemas

Commit message:

start to add stream support
first draft version with SDF support

returns vanilla stream by default, respects the order of data, url and path, returns streams in objectMode only if requested as option, support url using mikeal/request

add coerce option (coerce values according to their type in schema)

rename stream to createReadStream, add ldjsonify option (to return ldjson) and make foreignkey support optional even in objectMode

README.md, after:

# datapackage.js

Javascript Node module to manage [Data Packages][dp] especially [Simple
Data Format Data Packages][sdf] with tabular data stored in CSV.

[dp]: http://data.okfn.org/standards/data-package
[sdf]: http://data.okfn.org/standards/simple-data-format

## Installation

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/datapackage.png)](https://nodei.co/npm/datapackage/)

```
npm install datapackage
```

## Tests

    npm test

## Usage

The following assume you've required datapackage as follows:

```
var datapackage = require('datapackage');
```

All callbacks follow the standard node pattern of `(error, data, ...)`.

### Loading and normalizing a datapackage.json

```
datapackage.load(urlToDataPackage, callback)
```

Load a datapackage.json from a URL and normalize it as per the normalize function.

`urlToDataPackage` can be either a url to actual datapackage.json or to a base directory.

### Creating a Data Package datapackage.json (based on source data)

```
datapackage.create(info, callback)
```

`info` is an (optional) hash containing data to use for datapackage info most importantly it can contain a url or resource.url pointing to a data file (CSV). This file will be analyzed and used to create the resource entry in the datapackage.json.

### Validating a Data Package datapackage.json

```
datapackage.validate(rawData)
datapackage.validate(url)
```

Validate a datapackage either provided directly (as a raw string - JSON parse is done in the method) or as a url. This method is synchronous.

Returned object has structure:

```
{
  valid: true | false
  errors: [
    {
      message: ...
      ... possibly other info ...
    },
    {
      ...
    }
  ]
}
```

### Getting a stream

    var stream = datapackage.createReadStream('pathTo/datapackage', datapackage, resourceName, options);


```options```, an object with the following properties:

- objectMode: (true/false) return a stream in objectMode
- coerce: (true/false) coerce the values according to the types specified in schema
- ldjsonify: (true/false) JSON.stringify + '\n'
- foreignkeys: (true/false) take into account foreignkeys

Notes:
```foreignkey``` support for
[SDF](http://dataprotocols.org/simple-data-format/) assumes that the
datapackages have been installed by [npm](https://npmjs.org/doc/) (so
that the package.json files of the dependecies are in
```node_modules/``` (see
[here](https://github.com/isaacs/npm/blob/master/doc/files/npm-folders.md))).


## Changelog

### v0.2.0

* #1 - change to name on fields in resource schemas
